# Equity

Gini coefficient measurements

Significant inequalities in income and wealth are found when specific socially defined categories of people are compared. Among the most pervasive of these variables are sex/gender, race, and ethnicity as they contribute to great factors in society as they form and limit many parts of the economy.

The top 10,000 bitcoin investors own a combined 5 million BTC, representing 0.01% of all BTC holders, but controlling 27% of the digital currency.

Unfortunately, ownership of laptops, desktops and high-speed internet services still lag in American black and Hispanic communities (have an internet coverage global map)&#x20;

6% of black males in technology&#x20;

* No one gets excluded from Web3 because it is permissionless. Everyone’s access to participate in Web3 is equal.
* women on Nifty Gateway account for less than 16% of artists in the marketplace

But Web2, the current era of the internet defined by companies built on proprietary data (such as Facebook and Google), started with a similar promise of empowering individual creators and removing intermediaries — a promise left unfulfilled.

A society in which all actors are completely free is likely to result in a significant amount of inequality, since individuals differ in their motivation to pursue wealth and will behave in ways that advance their own interests. Conversely, a society that is completely equal inhibits freedom, since individuals cannot behave in any way that causes them to be unequal to others — even if that unequal outcome is “earned” through hard work or skill.

t leaves space for builders to be rewarded for their contributions, which is necessary to foster incentives for smart, ambitious people to build in the ecosystem. At the same time, it places a burden on those builders — and the ecosystem as a whole — to build in a way that creates opportunity for less-advantaged participants.

* Don’t build a system that only benefits the wealthy, because what if you’re poor?
* Don’t build a system that disproportionately favors firstcomers, because what if you’re not embedded in networks that give you early access to knowledge?
* Don’t build a system that demands extreme technological savvy to succeed, because what if you don’t have the aptitude or resources to learn those skills?
* **Reputation-based governance:** according greater governance power to those with higher reputational value
* **Delegation:** enabling community members to nominate others to vote on their behalf
* **Pods/subDAOs:** smaller groups within an organization whose scope of governance can be constrained to their missions

Compare gas fees of blockchains to income earned in countries&#x20;

55% of all of the capital generated by NFT artists went to 16 creators
